at the house of naroumov , a cavalry officer , the long winter night had been passed in gambling . at five in the morning breakfast was served to the weary players . the winners ate with relish; the losers , on the contrary , pushed back their plates and sat brooding gloomily . under the influence of the good wine , however , the conversation then became general .

"well , sourine ? " said the host inquiringly .

"oh , i lost as usual . my luck is abominable . no matter how cool i keep , i never win . "

"how is it , herman , that you never touch a card ? " remarked one of the men , addressing a young officer of the engineering corps . "here you are with the rest of us at five o'clock in the morning , and you have neither played nor bet all night . "

"play interests me greatly , " replied the person addressed , "but i hardly care to sacrifice the necessaries of life for uncertain superfluities . "

"herman is a german , therefore economical; that explains it , " said tomsky . "but the person i can't quite understand is my grandmother , the countess anna fedorovna . "

"why ? " inquired a chorus of voices .

"i can't understand why my grandmother never gambles . "

"i don't see anything very striking in the fact that a woman of eighty refuses to gamble , " objected naroumov .

"have you never heard her story ? "

"no--"

"well , then , listen to it . to begin with , sixty years ago my grandmother went to paris , where she was all the fashion . people crowded each other in the streets to get a chance to see the 'muscovite venus , ' as she was called . all the great ladies played faro , then . on one occasion , while playing with the duke of orleans , she lost an enormous sum . she told her husband of the debt , but he refused outright to pay it . nothing could induce him to change his mind on the subject , and grandmother was at her wits' ends . finally , she remembered a friend of hers , count saint-germain . you must have heard of him , as many wonderful stories have been told about him . he is said to have discovered the elixir of life , the philosopher's stone , and many other equally marvelous things . he had money at his disposal , and my grandmother knew it . she sent him a note asking him to come to see her . he obeyed her summons and found her in great distress . she painted the cruelty of her husband in the darkest colors , and ended by telling the count that she depended upon his friendship and generosity .

"'i could lend you the money , ' replied the count , after a moment of thoughtfulness , 'but i know that you would not enjoy a moment's rest until you had returned it; it would only add to your embarrassment . there is another way of freeing yourself . '

"'but i have no money at all , ' insisted my grandmother .

"'there is no need of money . listen to me . '

"the count then told her a secret which any of us would give a good deal to know . "

the young gamesters were all attention . tomsky lit his pipe , took a few whiffs , then continued:

"the next evening , grandmother appeared at versailles at the queen's gaming-table . the duke of orleans was the dealer . grandmother made some excuse for not having brought any money , and began to punt . she chose three cards in succession , again and again , winning every time , and was soon out of debt . "

"a fable , " remarked herman; "perhaps the cards were marked . "

"i hardly think so , " replied tomsky , with an air of importance .

"so you have a grandmother who knows three winning cards , and you haven't found out the magic secret . "

"i must say i have not . she had four sons , one of them being my father , all of whom are devoted to play; she never told the secret to one of them . but my uncle told me this much , on his word of honor . tchaplitzky , who died in poverty after having squandered millions , lost at one time , at play , nearly three hundred thousand rubles . he was desperate and grandmother took pity on him . she told him the three cards , making him swear never to use them again . he returned to the game , staked fifty thousand rubles on each card , and came out ahead , after paying his debts . "

as day was dawning the party now broke up , each one draining his glass and taking his leave .

the countess anna fedorovna was seated before her mirror in her dressing-room . three women were assisting at her toilet . the old countess no longer made the slightest pretensions to beauty , but she still clung to all the habits of her youth , and spent as much time at her toilet as she had done sixty years before . at the window a young girl , her ward , sat at her needlework .

"good afternoon , grandmother , " cried a young officer , who had just entered the room . "i have come to ask a favor of you . "

"what , pavel ? "

"i want to be allowed to present one of my friends to you , and to take you to the ball on tuesday night . "

"take me to the ball and present him to me there . "

after a few more remarks the officer walked up to the window where lisaveta ivanovna sat .

"whom do you wish to present ? " asked the girl .

"naroumov; do you know him ? "

"no; is he a soldier ? "

"yes . "

"an engineer ? "

"no; why do you ask ? "

the girl smiled and made no reply .

pavel tomsky took his leave , and , left to herself , lisaveta glanced out of the window . soon , a young officer appeared at the corner of the street; the girl blushed and bent her head low over her canvas .

this appearance of the officer had become a daily occurrence . the man was totally unknown to her , and as she was not accustomed to coquetting with the soldiers she saw on the street , she hardly knew how to explain his presence . his persistence finally roused an interest entirely strange to her . one day , she even ventured to smile upon her admirer , for such he seemed to be .

the reader need hardly be told that the officer was no other than herman , the would-be gambler , whose imagination had been strongly excited by the story told by tomsky of the three magic cards .

"ah , " he thought , "if the old countess would only reveal the secret to me . why not try to win her good-will and appeal to her sympathy ? "

with this idea in mind , he took up his daily station before the house , watching the pretty face at the window , and trusting to fate to bring about the desired acquaintance .

one day , as lisaveta was standing on the pavement about to enter the carriage after the countess , she felt herself jostled and a note was thrust into her hand . turning , she saw the young officer at her elbow . as quick as thought , she put the note in her glove and entered the carriage . on her return from the drive , she hastened to her chamber to read the missive , in a state of excitement mingled with fear . it was a tender and respectful declaration of affection , copied word for word from a german novel . of this fact , lisa was , of course , ignorant .

the young girl was much impressed by the missive , but she felt that the writer must not be encouraged . she therefore wrote a few lines of explanation and , at the first opportunity , dropped it , with the letter , out of the window . the officer hastily crossed the street , picked up the papers and entered a shop to read them .

in no wise daunted by this rebuff , he found the opportunity to send her another note in a few days . he received no reply , but , evidently understanding the female heart , he presevered , begging for an interview . he was rewarded at last by the following:

"to-night we go to the ambassador's ball . we shall remain until two o'clock . i can arrange for a meeting in this way . after our departure , the servants will probably all go out , or go to sleep . at half-past eleven enter the vestibule boldly , and if you see any one , inquire for the countess; if not , ascend the stairs , turn to the left and go on until you come to a door , which opens into her bedchamber . enter his room and behind a screen you will find another door leading to a corridor; from this a spiral staircase leads to my sitting-room . i shall expect to find you there on my return . "

herman trembled like a leaf as the appointed hour drew near . he obeyed instructions fully , and , as he met no one , he reached the old lady's bedchamber without difficulty . instead of going out of the small door behind the screen , however , he concealed himself in a closet to await the return of the old countess .

the hours dragged slowly by; at last he heard the sound of wheels . immediately lamps were lighted and servants began moving about . finally the old woman tottered into the room , completely exhausted . her women removed her wraps and proceeded to get her in readiness for the night . herman watched the proceedings with a curiosity not unmingled with superstitious fear . when at last she was attired in cap and gown , the old woman looked less uncanny than when she wore her ball-dress of blue brocade .

she sat down in an easy chair beside a table , as she was in the habit of doing before retiring , and her women withdrew . as the old lady sat swaying to and fro , seemingly oblivious to her surroundings , herman crept out of his hiding-place .

at the slight noise the old woman opened her eyes , and gazed at the intruder with a half-dazed expression .

"have no fear , i beg of you , " said herman , in a calm voice . "i have not come to harm you , but to ask a favor of you instead . "

the countess looked at him in silence , seemingly without comprehending him . herman thought she might be deaf , so he put his lips close to her ear and repeated his remark . the listener remained perfectly mute .

"you could make my fortune without its costing you anything , " pleaded the young man; "only tell me the three cards which are sure to win , and--"

herman paused as the old woman opened her lips as if about to speak .

"it was only a jest; i swear to you , it was only a jest , " came from the withered lips .

"there was no jesting about it . remember tchaplitzky , who , thanks to you , was able to pay his debts . "

an expression of interior agitation passed over the face of the old woman; then she relapsed into her former apathy .

"will you tell me the names of the magic cards , or not ? " asked herman after a pause .

there was no reply .

the young man then drew a pistol from his pocket , exclaiming: "you old witch , i'll force you to tell me ! "

at the sight of the weapon the countess gave a second sign of life . she threw back her head and put out her hands as if to protect herself; then they dropped and she sat motionless .

herman grasped her arm roughly , and was about to renew his threats , when he saw that she was dead !

seated in her room , still in her ball-dress , lisaveta gave herself up to her reflections . she had expected to find the young officer there , but she felt relieved to see that he was not .

strangely enough , that very night at the ball , tomsky had rallied her about her preference for the young officer , assuring her that he knew more than she supposed he did .

"of whom are you speaking ? " she had asked in alarm , fearing her adventure had been discovered .

"of the remarkable man , " was the reply . "his name is herman . "

lisa made no reply .

"this herman , " continued tomsky , "is a romantic character; he has the profile of a napoleon and the heart of a mephistopheles . it is said he has at least three crimes on his conscience . but how pale you are . "

"it is only a slight headache . but why do you talk to me of this herman ? "

"because i believe he has serious intentions concerning you . "

"where has he seen me ? "

"at church , perhaps , or on the street . "

the conversation was interrupted at this point , to the great regret of the young girl . the words of tomsky made a deep impression upon her , and she realized how imprudently she had acted . she was thinking of all this and a great deal more when the door of her apartment suddenly opened , and herman stood before her . she drew back at sight of him , trembling violently .

"where have you been ? " she asked in a frightened whisper .

"in the bedchamber of the countess . she is dead , " was the calm reply .

"my god ! what are you saying ? " cried the girl .

"furthermore , i believe that i was the cause of her death . "

the words of tomsky flashed through lisa's mind .

herman sat down and told her all . she listened with a feeling of terror and disgust . so those passionate letters , that audacious pursuit were not the result of tenderness and love . it was money that he desired . the poor girl felt that she had in a sense been an accomplice in the death of her benefactress . she began to weep bitterly . herman regarded her in silence .

"you are a monster ! " exclaimed lisa , drying her eyes .

"i didn't intend to kill her; the pistol was not even loaded .

"how are you going to get out of the house ? " inquired lisa . "it is nearly daylight . i intended to show you the way to a secret staircase , while the countess was asleep , as we would have to cross her chamber . now i am afraid to do so . "

"direct me , and i will find the way alone , " replied herman .

she gave him minute instructions and a key with which to open the street door . the young man pressed the cold , inert hand , then went out .

the death of the countess had surprised no one , as it had long been expected . her funeral was attended by every one of note in the vicinity . herman mingled with the throng without attracting any especial attention . after all the friends had taken their last look at the dead face , the young man approached the bier . he prostrated himself on the cold floor , and remained motionless for a long time . he rose at last with a face almost as pale as that of the corpse itself , and went up the steps to look into the casket . as he looked down it seemed to him that the rigid face returned his glance mockingly , closing one eye . he turned abruptly away , made a false step , and fell to the floor . he was picked up , and , at the same moment , lisaveta was carried out in a faint .

herman did not recover his usual composure during the entire day . he dined alone at an out-of-the-way restaurant , and drank a great deal , in the hope of stifling his emotion . the wine only served to stimulate his imagination . he returned home and threw himself down on his bed without undressing .

during the night he awoke with a start; the moon shone into his chamber , making everything plainly visible . some one looked in at the window , then quickly disappeared . he paid no attention to this , but soon he heard the vestibule door open . he thought it was his orderly , returning late , drunk as usual . the step was an unfamiliar one , and he heard the shuffling sound of loose slippers .

the door of his room opened , and a woman in white entered . she came close to the bed , and the terrified man recognized the countess .

"i have come to you against my will , " she said abruptly; "but i was commanded to grant your request . the tray , seven , and ace in succession are the magic cards . twenty-four hours must elapse between the use of each card , and after the three have been used you must never play again . "

the fantom then turned and walked away . herman heard the outside door close , and again saw the form pass the window .

he rose and went out into the hall , where his orderly lay asleep on the floor . the door was closed . finding no trace of a visitor , he returned to his room , lit his candle , and wrote down what he had just heard .

two fixed ideas cannot exist in the brain at the same time any more than two bodies can occupy the same point in space . the tray , seven , and ace soon chased away the thoughts of the dead woman , and all other thoughts from the brain of the young officer . all his ideas merged into a single one: how to turn to advantage the secret paid for so dearly . he even thought of resigning his commission and going to paris to force a fortune from conquered fate . chance rescued him from his embarrassment .

tchekalinsky , a man who had passed his whole life at cards , opened a club at st . petersburg . his long experience secured for him the confidence of his companions , and his hospitality and genial humor conciliated society .

the gilded youth flocked around him , neglecting society , preferring the charms of faro to those of their sweethearts . naroumov invited herman to accompany him to the club , and the young man accepted the invitation only too willingly .

the two officers found the apartments full . generals and statesmen played whist; young men lounged on sofas , eating ices or smoking . in the principal salon stood a long table , at which about twenty men sat playing faro , the host of the establishment being the banker .

he was a man of about sixty , gray-haired and respectable . his ruddy face shone with genial humor; his eyes sparkled and a constant smile hovered around his lips .

naroumov presented herman . the host gave him a cordial handshake , begged him not to stand upon ceremony , and returned , to his dealing . more than thirty cards were already on the table . tchekalinsky paused after each coup , to allow the punters time to recognize their gains or losses , politely answering all questions and constantly smiling .

after the deal was over , the cards were shuffled and the game began again .

"permit me to choose a card , " said herman , stretching out his hand over the head of a portly gentleman , to reach a livret . the banker bowed without replying .

herman chose a card , and wrote the amount of his stake upon it with a piece of chalk .

"how much is that ? " asked the banker; "excuse me , sir , but i do not see well . "

"forty thousand rubles , " said herman coolly .

all eyes were instantly turned upon the speaker .

"he has lost his wits , " thought naroumov .

"allow me to observe , " said tchekalinsky , with his eternal smile , "that your stake is excessive . "

"what of it ? " replied herman , nettled . "do you accept it or not ? "

the banker nodded in assent . "i have only to remind you that the cash will be necessary; of course your word is good , but in order to keep the confidence of my patrons , i prefer the ready money . "

herman took a bank-check from his pocket and handed it to his host . the latter examined it attentively , then laid it on the card chosen .

he began dealing: to the right , a nine; to the left , a tray .

"the tray wins , " said herman , showing the card he held--a tray .

a murmur ran through the crowd . tchekalinsky frowned for a second only , then his smile returned . he took a roll of bank-bills from his pocket and counted out the required sum . herman received it and at once left the table .

the next evening saw him at the place again . every one eyed him curiously , and tchekalinsky greeted him cordially .

he selected his card and placed upon it his fresh stake . the banker began dealing: to the right , a nine; to the left , a seven .

herman then showed his card--a seven spot . the onlookers exclaimed , and the host was visibly disturbed . he counted out ninety-four-thousand rubles and passed them to herman , who accepted them without showing the least surprise , and at once withdrew .

the following evening he went again . his appearance was the signal for the cessation of all occupation , every one being eager to watch the developments of events . he selected his card--an ace .

the dealing began: to the right , a queen; to the left , an ace .

"the ace wins , " remarked herman , turning up his card without glancing at it .

"your queen is killed , " remarked tchekalinsky quietly .

herman trembled; looking down , he saw , not the ace he had selected , but the queen of spades . he could scarcely believe his eyes . it seemed impossible that he could have made such a mistake . as he stared at the card it seemed to him that the queen winked one eye at him mockingly .

"the old woman ! " he exclaimed involuntarily .

the croupier raked in the money while he looked on in stupid terror . when he left the table , all made way for him to pass; the cards were shuffled , and the gambling went on .

herman became a lunatic . he was confined at the hospital at oboukov , where he spoke to no one , but kept constantly murmuring in a monotonous tone: "the tray , seven , ace ! the tray , seven , queen ! "
